---
description: Infinity Void Unreal Engine SDK - Getting Started
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1542751371-adc38448a05e?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHwzfHxnYW1pbmd8ZW58MHx8fHwxNjYzOTI1MzI5&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# 01. Creating a New Project

If you don't already have an existing project, you can follow these steps to create a new project in Unreal Engine:

1. Open the Unreal Engine Editor.
2. Click on the "Game" tab in the main toolbar.
3. In the project creation window, choose the "Blank Project" template.
4. Under the "Project Defaults" section, it is recommended to select the project type as "C++." This choice allows for easy integration of C++ classes and includes the Blueprint functionality. However, you can choose a different project type based on your requirements.
5. Specify the target platform for your project. The default setting is "Desktop," but note that the experience created can be accessible on other platforms as well.
6. Decide whether to enable or disable features like ray tracing and starter content based on your project's needs and specifications.
7. Choose the location where you want to save the project on your local machine.
8. Click the "Create" button to create the project.

Congratulations! You have successfully created a new project in Unreal Engine. You can now proceed with the installation of the Infinity Void SDK and begin developing your immersive experiences within the Infinity Void Metaverse.

If you require any further guidance or have any questions, please refer to the documentation or reach out to our support team for assistance.

\
