---
description: Character Class
---

# BP\_IVCharacter

This class, BP\_IVCharacter, serves as the primary character class for your game within the Infinity Void SDK. It encompasses all the essential logic and functionality related to the character's behavior and interactions. The class has been optimized specifically for multiplayer functionality, ensuring smooth and efficient gameplay experiences in a multiplayer environment.

It's important to note that the BP\_IVCharacter class includes the default Ready Player Me character. Ready Player Me allows users to create and customize their own avatars within the Infinity Void Metaverse. The character appearance and details are automatically updated whenever users log in via the platform.

The BP\_IVCharacter class also incorporates a CharacterMovementComponent, which has been implemented from scratch in C++. This custom CharacterMovementComponent is designed to maximize efficiency and performance in a multiplayer environment. It ensures smooth and responsive character movement, providing an immersive experience for players.

As a best practice, it is recommended to avoid making modifications to the BP\_IVCharacter class unless necessary for adding new features or specific customization requirements. Modifying the class unnecessarily may interfere with the optimized multiplayer functionality and character movement implemented within the SDK.

By leveraging the BP\_IVCharacter class as the foundation for your character's logic and behavior, you can benefit from the optimized multiplayer functionality, seamless integration with Ready Player Me, and efficient character movement in the Infinity Void Metaverse. It is mandatory to use this class for your player.

For more detailed information on utilizing the BP\_IVCharacter class or any other components within the Infinity Void SDK, please refer to the provided documentation and reach out to our support team for further assistance.
